# Application Layer

## i18n


https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.0/topics/i18n/translation/

<p>
Internationalization (i18n) in Django refers to the process of adapting your web application to support multiple languages and locales. The goal is to make your application accessible to users from different linguistic backgrounds. Django provides robust support for i18n, making it relatively easy to implement.

For digid customized based on organsation logic, loading from json file. configured  in the settings.py

```
I18N_LANG = 'en'
I18N_FILE = f'{BASE_DIR}/../{APP_COUNTRY_CODE}/{ORG_ID}/i18n/{I18N_LANG}.json'
load_i18n = json.load(open(I18N_FILE))
```

Here's a basic guide on how to set up and use internationalization in a Django project:

</p>

### 1. Enable i18n in settings.py:
<p>
In Django, the LANGUAGE_CODE setting in the settings.py file determines the default language for your application. It is used to set the language code for the user interface and localization features.


By default, LANGUAGE_CODE is set to 'en-us', which represents English (United States). If your application is primarily in English, you can leave it as is. However, if you want to use a different default language, you can change the value accordingly.


In your settings.py, make sure that django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware is included in the MIDDLEWARE setting:
</p>

```
MIDDLEWARE = [
    # ...
    'django.middleware.locale.LocaleMiddleware',
    # ...
]

LANGUAGE_CODE = 'es-es'

```

<p>
Replace 'es-es' with the appropriate language code for your desired default language and locale.

Also, set the LANGUAGES and LOCALE_PATHS settings:</p>

```
LANGUAGES = [
    ('en', _('English')),
    ('es', _('Spanish')),
    # Add more languages as needed
]

LOCALE_PATHS = [
    os.path.join(BASE_DIR, 'locale'),  # Path to the directory containing your translation files
]
```


### 2. Create Translation Files:
<p>
Django uses .po (Portable Object) files for translation. Run the following management command to create initial translation files:
</p>

```
python manage.py makemessages -l es
```